# FFCS-master
Birds are an important part of the ecosystem, and their sounds can provide information about the health of the ecosystem. By automatically detecting and classifying bird sounds, relevant researchers can learn ecological information about bird distribution, migration patterns, and habitat preferences. This paper proposes a bird sound classification method based on a lightweight model Feature Fusion in CNN-SVM named FFCS. Firstly, spectral subtraction is used to denoise the original sound data and remove the environmental noise. Secondly, there are great differences in the sounds of different birds. To address these differences, an improved double-threshold method was designed to automatically extract bird sounds from complex sound data. Then the sound features MFCC and GFCC are extracted and fused as the fusion feature MGCC. Finally, the fused feature MGCC is input into the deep learning bird sound classification model FFCS to obtain the classification result. There are a total of 7 categories of original sound data, namely: Chicken, Psittacula Krameri, Branta Leucopsis, Cygnus Olor, Mareca Penelope, Greylag Goose, Anas Platyrhynchos. The total duration of bird sounds is 15.2 hours and 7280 bird sounds were intercepted by the improved double-threshold method. In order to verify the efficiency of the proposed FFCS model, the same data set was used to compare with 8 deep learning models. The results verified the superiority of the FFCS model in bird sound classification.

Our code is comming soon
